# Katalon Command Line Maven Plugin

This project provides a custom Maven plugin (MOJO) to execute Katalon Studio automated tests from your Maven build.  Presently this project is an experiment designed to gauge interest in running Katalon suites from Maven.  The plugin has not yet been releaed, but you are welcome to build it from the open source code here and try it.

## Getting Started
 
### Maven POM
Add a build step to your Maven pom.xml file.

```
	<build>
		<plugins>
			<plugin>
				<groupId>com.cocoasystems</groupId>
				<artifactId>katalon-cl-maven-plugin</artifactId>
				<version>0.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>
				<configuration>
					<katalonProjectPath>${project.baseDir}\Sample Katalon Project</katalonProjectPath>
					<testSuitePath>Test Suites/My Test Suite</testSuitePath>
				</configuration>
				<executions>
					<execution>
						<phase>install</phase>
						<goals>
							<goal>exec-katalon</goal>
						</goals>
					</execution>
				</executions>
			</plugin>
		</plugins>
	</build>
```

### Command Line

To execute Katalon using this POM from the command line use

```
mvn katalon-cl:exec-katalon
```

To execute a different test suite use

```
mvn katalon-cl:exec-katalon -testSuitePath="Test Suites/Another Suite"
```

The plugin uses the KATALON_HOME environment variable to find where you installed/unzipped Katalon Studio.  If you do not want to set KATALON_HOME, or want to override this value, use the katalonPath parameter.

For more information about plugin parameters, see [Supported Parameters](supported-parameters.md). 

## What's Included?
### katalon-cl-maven-plugin
This Maven project builds the Katalon Command Line Maven Plugin.  Use the following Maven command to build it.
```
mvn install
```

### katalon-cl-maven-plugin-usage
This is a sample Maven project to show how to use the plugin.  It includes a sample Katalon project with one test and one test suite.  To run it, use
```
mvn katalon-cl:exec-katalon
```

## Limitations

* The plugin implements only a basic subset of the command-line options that Katalon supports.  I will add the rest in the near future.  See [Supported Parameters](supported-parameters.md).
* The project lacks unit tests.  I am a huge fan of unit-testing, and will add tests soon.
* The plugin interacts with Katalon via a Java shell command execution.  It might be cleaner to use Java/Groovy library calls, but I have not found a way to do that.


## Known Issues

* When executing the sample Katalon project, warnings apper related to the project name.  It appears that the project name is stored in the .project file generated by the Katalon Studio IDE during development.  The project name is roughly based on the absolute file path to the project.  Hence, it not portable, i.e., the warnings began appearing after I copied the sample Katalon project into the Git usage folder.

## Resources

* [Katalon Studio Automated Testing](https://www.katalon.com/)
* [Katalon Community Forumns](https://forum.katalon.com/)
* [Katalon Command Line](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-studio/docs/console-mode-execution.html#katalon-command-line-options)
* [Download Maven](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)
* [Maven Custom Plugin Development](https://maven.apache.org/guides/plugin/guide-java-plugin-development.html)


## Authors

* **Harold Owen** - *Initial work* - Cocoasystems Inc.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* The Katalon Studio Development Team and Lounge
* The test automators.  (They knew who they are.)


